chicken came up allow
hi I'm a looper and I welcome you to
Sanjeev Kapoor katana let's make chicken
keema pulao this is with mince and let's
quickly see what all we need to make
chicken came up allow for this I need
about one and a half cups of basmati
rice which I have soaked for about 20
minutes two onions sliced about 1/2 a
cup of plain yogurt salt to taste 2 to 3
green chillies slit 3 to 4 cloves of
garlic finely chopped about 1 inch of
ginger finely chopped 3 to 4 cloves a to
10 black peppercorns 2 to 3 green
cardamoms 1 cup chicken mince 1/2 a TSP
turmeric powder 1 tsp cumin seeds 1 tsp
red chili powder 1 inch cinnamon 1 TSP
garam masala powder 2 tablespoons oil 2
to 3 tablespoons of chopped fresh
coriander leaves okay so to begin with
let's first get a nice deep non-stick
pan to a child add oil so first i am
going to start with adding cumin seeds
after cumin seeds we'll add cloves black
peppercorns green cardamom and cinnamon
once all these spices come in contact
with oil
they emit this amazing aroma and that is
the speciality of all the spices now to
this we'll add onion and after you added
the onion we have to saute this for some
time till the onions start browning now
I have chicken mince with me to which
I'm going to add some spices here red
chilli powder will add some turmeric
powder some salt and I'm going to add
some yogurt to this why yogurt because
chicken mince is quite thick now when
you add this to this masala it will
suddenly shrink and it may just form a
ball I don't want that to happen you
need some moisture in the mince so that
it separates and starts cooking evenly
all its basically I want the chicken
mince to stay in a mince form while it
is getting cooked with the onions and
not form a kafka or a ball so just mix
this well we have to chop some coriander
so this is the coriander that we need
that's it you see the onions they have
also started browning now to this onion
we'll add some chopped ginger and some
garlic
we'll add some green chillies and we'll
saute this once again okay after you've
sorted the ginger and the garlic it's
time to add the mince the chicken mince
and as soon as you add the mince start
mixing it this will not take very long
to cook to this we'll add the rice now
the rice that I have used as gas methey
rice which I've soaked for 20 minutes
after you've soaked it for 20 minutes
drain off the excess water and leave the
rice just as it is need to add some more
salt you add the coriander and just 1
mix we will just add sufficient water
and let this cook the ratio is like this
if using 1 cup of rice you will add 2
cups of water but in this case is
chicken mince as well and it's so pull
out so you don't need the rice to be
overcooked so we may add about 2 cups or
we could even go a little lesser because
the chicken will also leave its moisture
we've also added yogurt so the amount of
water will be a little less than 2 cups
that's it we'll place the lid and this
will take anywhere around 10 to 15
minutes on medium heat initially keep
the heat high so that it starts boiling
and the minute this comes to a boil put
it to medium and after 5 minutes you can
even lower it down to low and if the
base that you're using and if the vessel
that you using is not very thick you can
even place a tava below the pot or the
pan that you're cooking the rice in
right now it's at high heat because I
need the water to come to a boil and the
minute it comes to a boil I'm going to
lower it to medium this will take
anywhere around 15 minutes and after
this is ready to serve so now let's see
this this is just perfect now with the
help of a fork just break the rice like
this it's very essential cause rice is
quite starchy and it tends to stick to
each other as it goes cold so while the
rice is hot just open the grain
and now we'll serve this so chicken
keema pulao is ready make this recipe
just the way I have made it and you'll
love it